Lightweight Registry with Oras OCI Layouts and Cloud Object Storage (#253)
oras-project/oras-www: blog/2023-10-14-lightweight-cloud-registry-oras/index.mdx

---
slug: lightweight-cloud-registry-oras
title: Lightweight Registry with Oras OCI Layouts and Cloud Object Storage
authors: [oras]
tags: [oras, community]
---

## ORAS Lightweight Cloud Registry

Setting up a centralized cloud OCI registry is sometimes too much for small scale tests and proof of concepts!  
What if I told you there was a lightweight alternative?  

> <!--truncate-->

Author: As I understand it, this is the little one-sentance-summary in the side-panel cut off directive.
All the other blog posts contain one too.

## Everything Should Be a File

One of the great Unix philosophies is the concept of making everything a file.

> Modems, keyboards, printers, disk drives, serial interfaces, configuration, kernel parameteres, IPC, everything and anything is a file that you can `read()` and/or `write()` to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modems, keyboards, printers, disk drives, serial interfaces, configuration, kernel parameteres, IPC, everything and anything is a file that you can `read()` and/or `write()`.

```

> In a nutshell this separates a large many concerns to the file system layer instead of your program.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a nutshell, this separates a many concerns to the file system layer instead of your program.  

```

It allows, among other things, plugging stuff into any program without writing special integration code.  

> That code was already written in the "driver" for that "device", why repeat yourself in the program?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That code was already written in the "driver" for that "device", so why repeat yourself in the program?

```

In General: **programs write and read files**  
Making everything a file means that you can generally interface with every program.

### Oras is [EIAF](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Everything_is_a_file) Compatible

`oras` has a `--oci-layout`

Instead of talking to an upstream service over `http/https`, `oras` can create the OCI artifact structure as files and directories.

Most (if not every) operation that can be performed on an upstream registry can also be performed locally as an OCI directory structure.

### Cloud Object Storage is [EIAF](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Everything_is_a_file) Compatible

The file system is the foundation on which EIAF rests upon.  

> They are special components that convert media (CD, Tape, HDD, Controllers, etc.) into interface layers on which you can read/write files to.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They are special components that convert media (CD, Tape, HDD, Controllers, etc.) into interface layers of which you can read/write files.  

```

If you can mount **it** as a file system, you got EIAF.

Your preferred Cloud provider should have its own FUSE driver for their object storage offering, and if it doesn't, there is probably an alternative.
* [Google Cloud Storage](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/gcsfuse)
* [Azure Blob Storage](https://github.com/Azure/azure-storage-fuse)
* [AWS Simple Storage Service](https://github.com/s3fs-fuse/s3fs-fuse) (Unofficial)

---

> It is useful to think of COS as `key: data` databases instead of the file systems they pretend to be.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is useful to think of Cloud Object Storage (COS) as `key: data` databases instead of the file systems they pretend to be.  

```

Author: Damn, I was unaware of IBM's [COS](https://www.ibm.com/products/cloud-object-storage), I wanted to make the article generic to most any Cloud Object Storage solutions with minimal confusion.
My options are: 
* Continue with the term COS, as it is the most generic definition of the technology and all confusion is IBM's fault for naming their product something so generic,
* Change it to something like Object Storage, and specify remote/cloud as appropriate

### Prerequisites

- Install [ORAS](https://github.com/oras-project/oras/releases)
- Install [s3fs](https://github.com/s3fs-fuse/s3fs-fuse#installation)
- Obtain an AWS account and create a S3 bucket

### Creating some test artifacts

Lets's first create some artifacts!  
```sh
echo "Hello World!" > hello.txt
echo "Goodbye World!" > goodbye.txt
```

### Mounting your s3 bucket

Now we should mount our s3 bucket so that we can use it as an oci-layout target.  
Checkout `s3fs --help` for the different ways you can authenticate, here we are using credential profiles.
```sh
mkdir s3
s3fs my-bucket s3 -o profile=MY_AWS_PROFILE
```

### Using your new "registry"

Pushing our newly created artifacts is as easy as:  
```sh
oras push --oci-layout s3/hello:latest hello.txt:text/plain
oras push --oci-layout s3/goodbye:latest goodbye.txt:text/plain
```

Pulling them is just as simple!
```sh
rm hello.txt
rm goodbye.txt
oras pull --oci-layout s3/hello:latest
oras pull --oci-layout s3/goodbye:latest
cat hello.txt
cat goodbye.txt
```

### Congratulations!

**Now you are running your own lightweight OCI registry on the cloud!**

## Caveats 

> <!--bigger warning?-->

Author: This was more of a reminder and a question, can we make a bigger more obvious warning?

### **You can't delete**

**You can't delete your artifacts!**

Currently[^1] you can't delete your local `oci-layout` artifacts with `oras manifest delete` or `oras blob delete`

The core reason for this is that normally it is the registry's responsibility to garbage collect blobs without any references.

It is still possible to just do `rm -rf s3/my-repo`, but that is probably not what you want to do.

> [^1]: It is being worked on in [this issue](https://github.com/oras-project/oras-go/issues/454)

Author: When it's done. I'll replace that section to show you how to delete the artefacts.

### Concurrency?

Same concurrency rules of your COS apply, generally [last-write-wins](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eventual_consistency).

## Using this trick in your application

You can use this trick in your applications as well!  

Instead of integrating in your application code (hard dependency, vendor lock-in, complicates your interface: "how do I pass in creds?") you instead mount the COS in the container and then "just use the file system" (transferable, simple, external, interfaceable) 

There are some caveats to this approach and your application might leverage the capabilities of the Native COS api extremely well, but if it's just a simple interaction, why complicate things?

## Upgrading to Registry

> ### AWS Simple Storage Service -> ZOT

Author: What!
We are all AWS ~Marketting~ Foundations Certified!
:^]

I also wanted to be consistent with my naming on all the COS offerings to not use their Acronyms where I could.
It reads more clearly if you are not used to the specific platform.  
I am all ready using the acronym in the steps section so I thought it would be clear.
> if you are coming form pure AWS, do you know what GCS or ABS or OSS refers to? Now imagine it the other way around.

You can just point [ZOT](https://github.com/project-zot/zot/blob/main/examples/README.md#storage-drivers) at the s3 bucket as it is already expecting an `oci-layout` 

### Other

If you have a "normal" registry you'll need to export all your repos and their tags to that registry

#### Script

_NOTE: won't work with any repo containing a space or tab_ 

```
ls -1 s3/ | xargs -P0 -n1 sh -c 'oras repo tags --oci-layout "s3/$1" | xargs -P0 -n1 -I{} oras copy --recursive --from-oci-layout "s3/$1:{}" "yourregistry/$1:{}"' _
```

> There is no `--oci-layout` on `oras repo ls`, so we are substituting with:
> `ls -1 s3/`

## Performance

[Goofys](https://github.com/kahing/goofys) was the definitive champion utilizing the strengths of a caching file system with the powers of Cloud Object Storage, it was the fastest in the cloud and local.

[s3fs](https://github.com/s3fs-fuse/s3fs-fuse) made a commendable effort and was faster than the native api on small objects, but started to lose performance on the bigger objects.

## Findings

**tl:dr**

Local performance:  

> Test drive Goofys first, it made testing very difficult because it so effectively cached and reused object. Installing it was a pain though.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Goofys made testing very difficult because it so effectively cached and reused objects, but installing it was a pain.  

```

> `s3fs` installed easy but suffered around 512MiB, was bad at 1Gib and was awful at 2Gib.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`s3fs` installed easily, but suffered around 512MiB, was bad at 1Gib and was awful at 2Gib.

```

Cloud performance:  
Amazing throughout.  
Use Goofys.

> Note: `goofys` is cheating!. It is a caching fs, so the numbers below are not an accurate representation of all use-cases.  

### Local

> Done inside WSL Ubuntu over WiFi.

This test was done over Wifi and was overall pretty slow especially with the bigger objects.
Chunking the artifact did not lead to any substantial speed increases.

`goofys` isn't displayed, but you should try it out yourself!  
It's asynchronous update and caching nature is so powerful and led to testing complications.

![local plot](./img/local-plot.svg)

### AWS

Welp it's WAY faster over here!

`goofys` is an entire order of magnitude faster, but normalized around 2GiB.  
`s3fs` was also faster than native up until about 2GiB.

> Chunking the are fact did not lead to any substantial speed increases... Except for goofys, which showed an up to 2x speed increase!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Chunking the artifacts did not lead to any substantial speed increases... Except for goofys, which showed an up to a 2x speed increase!

```

![aws plot](./img/aws-plot.svg)

> > AWS2023 removed the epel repos, I used a Debian for this test with the apt `s3fs` and the go `goofys`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> AWS2023 has removed the Extra Packages for Enterprise Linux (EPEL) repositories, so I used a Debian to test with the apt `s3fs` and the go `goofys`.

```

---
slug: lightweight-cloud-registry-oras
title: Lightweight Registry with Oras OCI Layouts and Cloud Object Storage
authors: [oras]
tags: [oras, community]
---

> <!--TODO: spellcheck-->
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## ORAS Lightweight Cloud Registry

> Setting up a centralized cloud registry is a sometimes too much for small scale tests and POCs!  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setting up a centralized cloud OCI registry is sometimes too much for small scale tests and proof of concepts!  
```

What if I told you there was a lightweight alternative?  

<!--truncate-->

> ## Everything Should Be A file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Everything Should Be a File
```

> For this tutorial we are using s3 with `s3fs`, but feel free to use a different provider and follow along! 

### Prerequisites

- Install [ORAS](https://github.com/oras-project/oras/releases)
- Install [s3fs](https://github.com/s3fs-fuse/s3fs-fuse#installation)
- Obtain an AWS account and create a S3 bucket

### Creating some test artifacts

Lets's first create some artifacts!  
```sh
echo "Hello World!" > hello.txt
echo "Goodbye World!" > goodbye.txt
```

### Mounting your s3 bucket

Now we should mount our s3 bucket so that we can use it as an oci-layout target.  
Checkout `s3fs --help` for the different ways you can authenticate, here we are using credential profiles.
```sh
mkdir s3
s3fs my-bucket s3 -o profile=MY_AWS_PROFILE
```

### Using your new "registry"

Pushing our newly created artifacts is as easy as:  
```sh
oras push --oci-layout s3/hello:latest hello.txt:text/plain
oras push --oci-layout s3/goodbye:latest goodbye.txt:text/plain
```

Pulling them is just as simple!
```sh
rm hello.txt
rm goodbye.txt
oras pull --oci-layout s3/hello:latest
oras pull --oci-layout s3/goodbye:latest
cat hello.txt
cat goodbye.txt
```

### Congratulations!

> **Now you are running your own lightweight oci registry on the cloud!**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Now you are running your own lightweight OCI registry on the cloud!**

```
